I can update you the details of this mobile. If if you want to do it.
But otherwise I will be making the models for you, and I'll be showing it on the camera
I can. You can have a look at that, and then draw the structure.
So it's more about drawing the structures, identifying the different isomers and things like that.
So some of you may not need my help, but all because the questions are all there on the worksheet.
Most, if you will be able to answer those questions without seeing the structures also.
But for those of you who are not, you know.
Okay. With the okay part. Then I can. I'll show you the structures, too.
Okay, so it's all about, you know, you're working on your own.
Basically. But I've got a molecular model set here which I hope we can see change my video virtual background.
To. I'm blurred. My background yes, I hope you can see it now.
Yeah, so this is the kick that I would be using it's got all those.
Recall the bowl sticks and bolts in there, as you can see right?
So this is what I'll be using. I'll be making the models with these bolts and sticks, and then I'll be showing it to you.
With which you will be able to answer your question.
David, sorry to interrupt, but I can't say the option to submit.
This is just the light up. I can't say the option to submit the practical
I did it now, so should be able to see now.
It wasn't. Yeah.
Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
Now for those who are not in this class that are 2 of you who don't know one.
Yeah, don't belong to this class. But yeah, so you can finish it and send it to me by email or something that will be better.
Okay. Rather than adding, You let me see if I can add you in there, and then you can submit.
Otherwise, just finish it off and send it to me before 1230. Okay.
And for others, you should be able to see. Now, can you just refresh and look, have a look at that?
I thought I had made it visible with the right date.
Can someone have a look and let me know?
You still can't see it. Okay, give me a minute.
Yes, I've changed the page and everything, but I didn't make it visible.
My back.
Done! Now
Now what I've put in the chat now is like Link, where you can go and build your own motors if you wish to.
Yes, so that way, you know, you can work at your own case, and I mean, once you build a model, it's a bit of a it's a bit of a working ball.
So once you build a model, you will get an idea of how that looks like in 3 dimension
Okay, so what I've been doing is I'll be going out to the worksheet first.
And then we'll look at the question. I'll build the model and show it to you. Okay.
Most of the questions, even without seeing the model, should be able to answer, because you know the theory, part of it
So this is how that movie software looks like. So you can actually put in any element from here into that structure, you can build your own structure can put the bones.
You can put the elements in there, and then you see that in 3 dimension in here okay, so that's a mobile.
I've already updated that in the model. So if you want, you can just give a try with this link which I've put up here
Okay. Anyway, I'm going on to the worksheets are you able to see the worksheets?
So this is what they have. The discussion question is something which you can work on your own.
Okay, so are the following objects, the molecules chiral or not.
So I mean by Kyl, to objects. You've you've got the complete lecture for this.
So you know what Kiral and Acarl means.
Right? So Carlisle's been the ratio objects which are not superimposable.
Images of each other, and which do not have a plane of symmetry.
So that's how you know something. Is Kyle right?
That do not have a plan of symmetry, a card or something which has the plane of symmetry
Alright, so it looks symmetric. It has a plan of symmetry, and they' it's not chiral, so not chiral is what we call as a Kyle
So you can just quickly work out those 3 questions in question. Number one
Once you finish that and move on to question too.
Done with. Question number one
No more integration. Number 2. What's the difference between us?
Studio center and a chiral molecule
So these are things like, you know, you can work out on your own
I can't give you the answer for these. You've already had the lecture for this, and you know what the difference between studios and general molecules
So data center is basically a carbon center where there are 4 different connections onto it, or 4 different atoms.
A group of items connected
And kirality is for a molecule, so it could be mainly due to the presence of a studio center.
So there's a Cdo center like if there are 4 different groups connected to the carbon center, then normally, it will not have a plan of symmetry.
Alright!
All good move to the next one
I know most of you might have already answered these questions
What's the relationship between a cardinal molecule and enantioma?
So Kyle molecule is again a single molecule which does not have any molecule which does not have a plane of symmetry, or which has a studio center.
Therefore it does not have a plan of symmetry.
I guess. But that's for a molecule, enantiomerism is for 2 molecules together.
Okay, so it's a pair of chiral substances.
So it's a pair of chiral molecules which has middle remains.
Relationship between them. So a molecule, which is Cairo with its middle roommate, which is also chiral, makes a pair of enchantments
Okay, move to the next
So for this one and the right hand box, or a picture of the morally you've constructed, show how it can appear to have one angle of 90.
Okay. And you know it says, do not draw a edge and dash with structure. Okay?
So just asking you to put lines for the bonds just normalize would phone be fine.
Now, as it appears to have 90 degree, we know that.
So this is what it is. Okay, as you can see, this is what it is right.
It's just meeting right?
Right. So you know that the angle for meeting is to drawhedral.
What's the angle for tetrahedral?
One or 9.5, isn't it? That's the angle for to try he'll see you know that methane is tetrahedral, but it's just asking you a weird question like you know, how would it appear if it was drawn in 90 degrees so you can just put it
as a 9 to degree at right angles. How that would be like, it's just a viewed question, just to, you know, to just to yeah, to work out your imagination, how it would be like your visualization. Okay.
And 5 and 6. Also, you can answer it's for you to answer I've only given the answer just now.
But yeah, wo woke it out
D10, too nice!
So you know the name of the geometry? Right? The name of the jump is, what do you provide? Yeah.
Whether it is linear or trigonal, or tetrahedral, or whatever it is.
Okay.
The next one is to build a model of chloro methane
Natal chloride is a common name. Chloro meeting is a Upc name.
So here you have to draw a veget and dash with structure that best illustrates the geometry about the central item in the other box.
Draw another picture of the model from a different angle. So one is only given for you.
So this is how the wedge and dash, which looks like so, which is a thicker one, and the dashboard is the the one to the one behind.
Okay, so this chlorine is sticking out the out of the plane and the hydrogen that that hydrogen is actually behind the the the plan.
Okay. So when we are representing a three-dimensional molecule on a two-dimensional plan, we need to put them as Regis and dash register, just to make others understand.
Those of viewing it, understand that? Well, this atom is not on the plane, but sticking out or below, I mean.
So behind the plane
So you can draw the same one here this, and now the 2, now the 2 atoms as like oh, you know you could turn it around.
How would you draw it? So maybe this hydrogen will come to the front disclosure might go to the back.
Okay, so put in a different way here
Are you able to see me on camera? Or do you want me to stop, share and show you on camera?
No, we can see. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Oh, good. Then. So one of the hydrogen's I've replaced with a green color, which is a chlorine. Okay?
So still the geometry remains the same. Everything remains the same, except that one hybrid is replaced by chlorine
Can answer question 8. Also
Done. Question 9 in the C. History seal are the 3 hydrogen atoms equivalent.
So what do you think of these 3 hydrogen items connected to the car?
So what do you mean by equivalent? So do. Which means that, do they have identical and we are men.
With respect to the other atoms are just sent to themselves, so it's all to do with the connectivity.
Okay, so we know that all the 3 hydrogens are connected to the same carbon.
We just can get to the chlorine right? So which means that all the 3 hydrogens are in an equal enrollment, doesn't it?
Because they're all connected to the same content. So they are all equidistant from the chlorine and affected by chlorine.
In the same way. Right? So that's what equilibrium is made
Oh, good move to next one
Now the 2 boxes below draw the vegetin dash which pictures of C.
H 2. Brcl different angle of viewpoints.
Okay, so just make the model for you. So one more hydrogen is replaced by a bromine
That's what it is. It's the same to tryual structure as you can see right?
A hydrogen. So there are 2 hydrogens.
Now, these 2 are the hydrogen's right, and then you have a glorious, and you have a Roman, hey?
It's the same structure
The same geometry right? But maybe you can keep it like this.
Control. So when you keep it like this, right?
You find that, so if you keep it this way, you find that this atom, the Brahmin, and the hydrogen are on the same plane of carbon.
But this hydrogen is to the front, and this children is to the is behind.
Okay, so this one way of putting it, then roll it over and brought another way.
So now the Bromen. Sorry now, though. Yeah. Now the chlorine and the hydrogen are on the same plane as that of high, that that of carbon.
Okay. So for the Vince on the same plane, you draw the single lines with these 2 bonds.
Okay with the clone and with the hydrogen and one hydrogen is to the front.
So you put a thick wedge for that, and one that the bromine is behind.
So, therefore you put a dash, which for that
Okay, so draw 2 different new plans.
And also answer question 11. So that you can answer only wrong
Yeah, a question. Well, also, you can answer only wrong. Now we don't want. And now we know what equivalent
That I'll make see to hit 6
Yep. So that is C, 2 hit 6 right?
You can put any way like you would like this. The 2 Carbons
Alright. So the 2 coins wanted to each other, and there are 3 hydrogens with each carbon
No special thing about the single one is that you can actually rotate it, make any possible structure alright, but they are all equivalent structures, because you can rotate it and bring it back to the same thing, right?
So free rotation is possible about the carbon carbon, single bond
So when you're putting it as a venture dashboard structure, the 2 carbons right, the 2 hydrogen's on the top.
They are on the same plan. Those 4 items are on the same line, the hydrogen here is the franchise, the hydrogen.
Here is also to the front and the right to 5 regions behind
Okay.
Louis structure is how you see this. Okay? So you write the carbon, the single bond between them and the hydrogens, and all that condensed structure is putting this together.
One end, together with the carbon, so ch. 3. And then this is together, as one.
See h 3. Right. So you just you don't draw.
Draw any lines in between you. Just write. Ch. 3. See h.
3. That's it. Okay.
And then it can end so. The remaining questions, too.
Should be able to. And so 14 and 15
Done. Move to next
Also write the Epc. Name
And moving on to the next page. So we need to replace one of the hydrogen.
's with a chlorine. Okay, I'm going to do that.
So that's it right?
So I have taken away one hydrogen and put a flow in twice. That's the only thing.
So one carbon has got 3 hydrogens. The second carbon has got 2 hydrogens and a clover
So this is how it looks like
Okay.
Now the question is, all the 2 carbons equivalent?
So one carbon has got 3 hydrogens, the other carbon has got 2 hydrogens and a chlorine.
Yeah. So you can answer accordingly.
You're not asked to draw the model. You're just asked to build the model.
So I've built it for you. Okay, just have to answer these questions.
And all the 5 hydrogen items equivalent. Think about it.
So there are 5 hydrogens in total, isn't it? So?
These 3 are connected to the same carbon. These 2 are connected to the same carbon, but if the carbons are not equivalent, then think about it, how it's going to be
And also write the Ipc name
Done
Right that you, Casey, name if you rotate the hydrogen atoms to a different position by turning about the central carbon carbon bone to get different structures.
Isomer, so I'm going to turn it around for you.
Okay. So I'm gonna turn it around. They can actually come back to the same structure.
Alright! There's no change in the structure at all.
Yeah, see, that can come back to strain same structure, isn't it?
But do you get a different structure? What do you mean by structuralize them?
Or a constitutional isomer.
Optional is summer, or constitutional license.
When you have a different connectivity, if the connections are still the same, then it is the same thing
It's not a different isomer. Okay, yeah.
Okay. We'll watch the next month.
Build all possible models for dichotomy, ethane
So now we've got 2 chlorines. Okay?
Which means that I have to replace one more hydrogen with another clure.
Okay? And what are the different ways? They can do it so that are 2 carbons. There should be 4 hydrogens and 2 chlorine.
So what it can do is I can have chlorine been a new chlorine being put on the same carbon as we have the old one.
Okay, which is this carbon? Or I can put a chlorine on the all the carbon.
Okay. So I'll show you one of that does care
So that is one right? So for the the the first hydrogen is got all the 3 hydride.
So office carbon is what all the 3 hydrogen's in it, and this carbon has got 2 clients and a hydrogen.
Okay, so that's one way of putting it right. Another way is check.
Go one of the floating from here
And
Put it on that other cop
Right? So that is 2 different connectivity, as you can see.
Fine, so you can draw the content structure
Of the 2 Isomers.
And also that you pay a nice
Okay.
So both chlorines on the same carbon and each clothing on different car
The next one c. 4. Hitch 10. Okay. 4 carbons in a row.
Each carbon is tetrahedral. It's got for connections, so the carbon, the first carbon it's got 3 hydrogens, and the fourth board is connected to the second carbon, and that carbon is good 2 hydrogens.
And the bone disconnect to the next carbon, and this carbon has got 2 hydrogens.
Connect you to the next car, and the last couple and again it's got 3 hydrogens.
Okay, simple structure.
Can find that all the carbons are having a tetrahedral with a one or 9.5 degree angle, because it's all single-born between the compass
Okay, so this is one way of doing, say, for hitch 10.
What can be another way you can have 3 carbons in a row.
Okay, and then take away that last carbon. Okay, I'm going to take away the last carbon with its hydrogen.
Okay. And then I'm gonna take a hydrogen from the middle carbon here.
And I'm going to put that carbon in here so that creates a branch, as you can see.
Alright. So 3 carbons in a row, and then this middle carbon has got a branch with us.
Ch. 3
How would you name this? So it's a 3 carbon with a branched see H.
3 metile connected to the second carbon, so you can name it also, it can draw the schedule structure is just this, okay?
The skeletal structure is this, but with the carbon and hydrogen, and code instructor will be the ch. 3.
Then the ch with the ch. 3, and then I see history alright.
So do it. The appropriate answer, the questions, the appropriate way
So I've shown you both. Okay, is another structure possible?
No, that's a maximum branching possible for see? Full
Sorry.
So just to plurality. Now we've been asked to construct a model of meeting, and also model of a small image.
So I've done 2 meetings. Basically, okay, right?
So can. The remaining just basically proposed on the original.
Everything. So if you put on that the pots match so superimposition means, whether the parts match when you put it in one form so like this is how they will just imagine that there is a mirror here.
So this is exactly how they will. Sit as my roommates, and just like that if I take one put on top of the other.
The parts. Match. Okay? Sorry.
The parts match right.
Oh, good Christian, number 26. Does meeting contain a plan of symmetry?
What do you think? Does it test? Apply as much free? Can it be cut across the Adams so the one of the talk, the one behind and the carbon in the middle?
If you cut it all you get to Exact house
Basically, it's got 4 planes of symmetry
And is it, Chiral? Answer your question.
So by the time you answer those 3 questions I'll make the next one for you. Okay.
So in these questions you don't have to explain. Okay, you just have to say.
Whether yes or no. Well, what is okay? Just yes, sir, no questions.
Now that is plural meeting
So same story.
The parts match, because there is still kind of symmetry.
This bacon? Could it just bake and could it?
And feel superimposed, though, on the original. That's what it looks like.
So answer. Question 2829, and 30
Right. Then I would make the next one
So look at this now.
Still has a plan of symmetry. Okay? So cardiac.
Cross the orange, the green, and the common of the black to the center.
Okay, those 2 bones. And the carbon still has a plan of symmetry, because 2 hydrogen's on either side for both of them
Okay.
Take it. So 31, 32,
And to 33
I have to put it, Lauren
To keep them as my roommates is 4 different things connected.
So you you you can imagine how that's going to be like.
So I'll try to put them as
Tip. 2. Replication and brush
Yeah, so say this.
Okay. I've put them as my roommates imagine.
There's there's a mirror here right in the center.
So this is how you will see the Mesmer images.
But decide on whether they would superimpose or not.
So I'm going to keep one on top of the other one and see if the pots match or not.
And decide whether it has a plan of symmetry or not.
What we can see.
That's connected to it.
Chip.
Now let me make this model by the time you've finished other questions
To all. So there should be 4 carbons
I think it's full callpins. And then on the second car there should be no hitch, right?
So oxygen is this red? Okay? So I'm going to fix on the second carbon, which is this cop. And I'm going to fix.
An oxygen. This hydrogen
Little bit. Oh, oxygen with the hydrogen I can see here.
Alright, so carbon number one, which is this one? Right?
Carbon number 2 is this one? Want to see? It's call number 2 right?
And that is called an oxygen. That carbon is connected to an oxygen with a hydrogen okay, so it's carbon number 2 with and oxygen.
And how is she connected to it? Okay? And then you have good coin number 3 and carbon number 4.
Bye.
The rest is that should all be filled with higher hydrogen, which I'm not doing
You know that they're all
So second carbon will have a noh
Okay, that's what I guess.
Okay? Oh, good. What? We can see it in detail.
So this is a second column, and it has got that oxygen and
Now, when you are drawing the bench and dash rich structure of Butan to all just concentrate on this carbon.
So the carbon having the old hitch. Okay? So carbon having the old H.
What are the connections on that carbon, the carbon has got to?
O. Hitch connected to it a hydrogen connected to it.
The whole of this card, which is an ethyl part connected to it, which is the H.
2, ch. 3, okay, and a meet file connected to it. Ch.
3. So there's a ch. 3, that is, a ch.
2 ch. 3. That is a no hedge and a hydrogen connected to that carbon.
So you can just draw that carbon. Put the 4 bonds around it where 2 are single lines, and the other 2 are vegan, which a dash which lines okay?
And then own those 4 of them. You can put them as whole like.
Oh, h hey! See h, 2 c h 3, and see h 3
I don't mind if you draw it this way also, but that will be an easy way to draw it so that it's you'll be able to draw them in image also.
So middle roommate should be exactly like a more image of the one you've drawn on the left hand side
Okay, so draw the left one first, and then, looking at that, draw the mirror image on the right box
If you have good enough in drawing in more view, we can go ahead and then crop and put damage here.
Another way of doing it.
Okay.
And the second one there is 2 bromo Butane, so instead of the oh h!
It is a bromine. That's the only difference.
Okay, a bromin in place of the oakh.
So you get a similar kind of I, an original and okay.
Yeah, so, and he's showing that
Can give you 5 min for that. You will take 5 min to do it.
So take your time, and draw every, not disturb you for 5 min
Johnny.
Who want to. The next
Okay, so just moving on to the next one to promote.
Attend one. Also, let me just make it. Okay.
That's how the molecule looks like it's it can means it is 2 carbons.
Okay, the first carbon is this one. Okay, you just go.
And oh, it's connected to it, and 2 hydrogen's.
The other carbon escort, a Roman with 2 hydrogens.
You can also keep it like this, and you can also find line of symmetry
Okay. You find a studio center. This carbon has got 2 hydrogens.
Now the carbon also has got 2 hydrogens
So now we can draw the structure and see whether you find the studio center or not, and draw the mirror image
Yes, if you have completed and submitted, you can leave the meeting.
No problem. I'll modulate it this
Okay. Well, good.
Lieutenant to all. It's my roommate 2 Brahma Butane, the marimage.
And how many students it does a present, just the number of studio centers in each of them.
Okay, that's it.
Question. 42. Okay, let me check it. Just question 420, okay.
For the coming questions.
The molecules carrier, just comparing the mirror images
Okay.
The original and the mirror image
Move on to the next question.
Build the following molecule. And in my roommate, okay, so let's see, 2 companies
And it should be to blow right and to province. Okay.
Okay, so that's it. Okay.
So how many steel centers are present is a molecule chiral.
Does it contain a plan of symmetry? Can answer all those questions.
I'm not going to help you with anything. Okay.
You've done so many questions now, so you know exactly what what it is. I'm showing you the different from different angle
Essentially.
As you can say, it's like this.
Okay, kind of draw
And again turn it from
Yes, yes, you only have to talk about
Okay.
Done we can. Now we can answer the rest of the questions.
I don't think we have
Yeah, that's all. But that'd be finish.
Do you have any questions or anything?
And if you don't have any questions you can just leave the meeting, and you can submit the work.
But make sure that you submit before 1230, because you don't have time.
After that you will be, you will be applied a light penalty if you're something.
After that. Okay, so make sure that you stop it before 1230.
You've got plenty of time
See you
Thanks.
Now those who are in here. So how, Jason? Why, son Nicole, Tim, do you have any questions?
If not, you can leave no problem, all good. So please stop me before 1230.
Make sure that you do that, so that you don't be given a new light. Analogies. Okay.
Beautiful.
So, Nicole, are you fine? Just send it to me after you finish the work. Okay.